AI. In this episode, I speak with Tianmin Shu, a
rising figure in the AI research community soon to
join Johns Hopkins University with an impressive
background that includes a postdoc at MIT and a
PhD from UCLA. Tianmin works at the intersection
of AI and cognitive science with a particular
focus on societal aspects of both human and
artificial intelligence. Our conversation revolved
around the concept of world models, a term rooted
in developmental psychology and cognitive science
and their integration into AI. Tianmin elaborated
on how these models coupled with large language
models can enable the creation of agents capable
of interpreting and interacting with the world in
human-like ways. He sheds light on his projects
involving world models for household environments
and the potential of multimodal sensory data
in their training. The episode also delved
into the challenges and future trajectories in AI,
especially in the realm of social learning, where
AI models learn alongside of and from humans.
Tianmin discusses research driving the future of
AI and human robot interaction. And I hope you
find our conversation as insightful as I did.
CRAIG: At home and work, we all know one person
who is password challenged: sticky note reminders,
emailing passwords, reusing passwords, using
the word ‘password’ as their password. Because
data breaches affect everyone, you need
1Password. 1Password combines industry
leading security with award winning designed
to bring private, secure and user friendly
password management to everyone. Companies lose
hours every day just from employees forgetting
and resetting passwords. A single data breach
costs millions of dollars. 1Password secures
every sign in to save you time and money.
1Password lets you switch between iPhone,
Android, Mac and PC with convenient features
like autofill for quick signups. All you have
to remember is the one strong account password
that protects everything else - your logins,
your credit cards, secure notes, or the
office Wi Fi password. 1Password generates
as many strong unique passwords as you need
and securely stores them in an encrypted vault
that only you have access to. I use 1Password
and you should too. 1Password’s award winning
password manager is trusted by millions of
users and over 100,000 businesses from IBM
to Slack. It beat out 40 other options to become
Wirecutters top pick for password managers. Plus,
regular third party audits and the industry's
largest bug bounty keep 1Password at the forefront
of security. Right now, my listeners get a
two week free trial at 1Password.com/eyeonai.
CRAIG: So Why don't you start, Tianmin,
by introducing yourself and then I'll
ask questions from there. Give a little of your
educational background. Yeah. And where you're
working today and what you're working on.
TIANMIN: So I'm actually going to join
Hopkins the CS department and also the Cognitive
Science department as an assistant professor.
TIANMIN: But previously I did my postdoc at
MIT and before that I did my PhD at UCLA.
I' working at the intersection between AI
and cognitive science. I think a lot about
not only building artificial intelligence,
but also how human intelligence can inform
us to build better AI. And I think that the
idea of building a world model that actually
originally came from cognitive science and then
specifically I have a strong interest in the
social aspect of AI and also human intelligence.
TIANMIN: How we can build human level kind of
social intelligence so that we can allow
systems to understand humans and really
cooperate with humans in the same way that we
can understand and cooperate with each other.
And again, I think that's something
that's is very challenging right now.
TIANMIN: And also it's not something that big
companies are working on. And I think it's also
something that will really benefit from having a
world model. Both in the sense of understanding
how humans understand the world and also how we
can understand humans that live in this world.
CRAIG: Okay. Can we start first of
all, by talking about world models?
CRAIG: I've had a few episodes on world models.
But maybe you can, when did the idea of world
models emerge? I've been following Yann LeCun's
work, but I know it's much broader than that.
When did that idea emerge and can you give us
just a very brief history of its development?
TIANMIN: Just a to determine, I don't think
the history, I can tell. Probably not the
full history. There's going to be some people
at some point talking about world models that
I don't know about. But the kind of case I'm
familiar with is coming from developmental
psychology and also cognitive science.
TIANMIN: So in developmental psychology there's
this theory about core knowledge. So it's actually
a theory. Proposed by Liz Spelke, who is now a
professor at Harvard. So she had this theory about
so since first, we have some core knowlege about
the world and about other agents. that we can use
as a foundation for developing more sophisticated
intelligence that we can develop later in life.
TIANMIN: And one of them is to understand the
physical world. For example, we have some
physical common sense like object permanence,
we understand supports if you put something
on a table, it won't fall. So this kind of
basic kind of physical common sense allows us to
actually develop more sophisticated intelligence.
TIANMIN: And we have acquired those
critical common sense very long,
maybe even through evolution. Now it's unclear
that how much of it actually comes from evolution.
How much of it comes from experiences living
life. Now there's also this idea about having
an internal world model that can allow you
to simulate what could happen in the future.
TIANMIN: And you can use that kind of simulation
to not only reason about future physical states,
but also applying yourself better through this
kind of simulation. And that comes from a lot of
work from my PhD, sorry, not PhD advisor postdoc
advisor, Josh Tenenbaum. He had this idea that
human has this internal intuitive physics engine.
So we all know physics engine, which allows you to
simulate what could happen in the physical world.
TIANMIN: Now human, in our minds,
we can have an intuitive physics engine that
allows you to simulate what could happen in the
physical world, just like how you can simulate
what could happen in a physical world using a
game engine. Now using that, they show
that you can simulate physical events.
TIANMIN: And use that kind of simulation
results, adding some kind of noise on top
of that. And you can use that to approximate
how human judge physical events pretty well.
They did experiments where they show a
tower of blocks, and they ask people to
judge whether the block will fall or not.
TIANMIN: If they will fall which way
they will fall to, right? And then it turns out
that if you actually simulate that using a game
engine, you And as a little bit of noise on
top of that, because people have imperfect
imperfect kind of simulation, right? Physical
simulation plus noise or some kind of uncertainty,
that's approximately human judgment really well.
TIANMIN: And I think there's also recent kind of
collaboration with a neuroscience at MIT Nancy
Kanwisher. They show that there's some kind
of evidence in our brain that maybe our brain is
also using actually a game engine to simulate what
could happen in in a physical world.
CRAIG: Yeah.
CRAIG: And that engine to, to
simulate what's the computer code
or algorithmic architecture behind that?
TIANMIN: Yeah. So if you if you want to
write computer code there's there's this tools
called probabilistic programs. I don't know if
you have heard about it. Probabilistic programs.
TIANMIN: I think one way to understand it is that
you can generate you can write down codes to
describe a generative process. In this case,
you can describe a generative process
as a world model. You assemble objects,
you simulate force. And then the generative
model will tell you, after you apply this force,
what will happen next. What will be the
state of these objects, you just simulate.
TIANMIN: You can write down this generative
process as a program. And then when you run
this program, you will sample this
sample foundation model. And it will
tell you what's the distribution
of the, for example, in this case,
what's the distribution of the future states
of these objects after you run the simulation.
TIANMIN: So that allows you to, first of all,
simulate the generative model of the world. And
second, it gives you a distribution. And what you
can do with this distribution is you can conduct
probability inference. So say if you want to
predict where these objects will fall in the
next few steps you can use that simulation, that
distribution to tell you what is the likelihood
of these objects falling into this place.
TIANMIN: You can also use this simulation to do
planning, for example, with uncertainty. I think
probably this object is going to fall this place,
but maybe also in that place. Based on my
simulation, based on the distribution coming
from the, this policy program now given this
uncertainty, how I can plan myself in order
to maybe catch these objects.
CRAIG: I see. And that,
that is, that is the world model?
TIANMIN: Yes. So in that that's like one,
one implementation, right? You
use a physical simulation and
that allows you to sample future states. And that
can be implemented as a publish program.
CRAIG: I see. And then in your talk you were
talking about combining world models and large
language models and the language model would
provide the reasoning and the world model would
provide the the. predictions of future states,
and then the language model would pick which
action to arrive at a future state. Is that right?
TIANMIN: We explored or discussed different ways
in which people have tried to use language model
to implement as like a word model. So the most
direct use is say, let's prompt the language
model with the current state, the action,
and ask the model what could happen next.
TIANMIN: So this is the basic idea of a
word model, right? You want to predict
what will happen given the current state and given
your action. And then I think that the paper you
mentioned is the reasoning as planning paper
the RaP paper. So the idea behind that is that
why not we try to use a language model to do this.
TIANMIN: To imagine what could happen after taking
an action at the current step. It works to a
certain extent. I think in some simple scenarios,
it can work. I don't think at this point, the
model is robust enough to serve as a model on
its own for more complicated scenarios.
CRAIG: Okay, and then this most recent
paper and the the workshop at NeurIPS was about
combining the language model with a world model.
CRAIG: So the world model predicts the future
states and the language model provides the
reasoning. Did I understand that correctly?
TIANMIN: I don't think that's I guess the
complete idea. The idea is that we want to
have expressible models and also express
agent model that's built upon our model.
TIANMIN: And then using agent model and world
model we can conduct model based reasoning.
Now we want to explore the idea that,
how language model could be used as a back end
to implement a world model and an agent model.
And of course like the RaP paper, there has been
effort that try to use language model directly as,
for example, word model and agent models.
TIANMIN: That can work in certain scenarios,
but not in more complex scenarios. Now we want
to explore, for example, how it can maybe enhance
the agent model to serve as a better world
models and agent models. And second, we want
to also explore ways in which we can not only
just use language, but also use other modalities,
like the vision even like touch or audio to
to really build multi modal world models.
TIANMIN: That's, so obviously that's
not going to be the kind of typical
language model you see nowadays.
CRAIG: Yeah. So can you talk a
little bit about that? How you introduce the
language model into this into this architecture
with a world model in order to produce an agent?
TIANMIN: So I think I would say there are probably
like two ways you can introduce this one way.
TIANMIN: That's that's not coming from my own
work. That's from My, my colleagues
at MIT they introduced the idea that
use language as interface to translate language
discussion about scenarios into a probabilistic
program so that you can conduct probabilistic
inference using that probabilistic program.
TIANMIN: And again, probabilistic programs
serve as a training model of the world. And
also about other agents. This idea comes from
very classical idea in cognitive science called
language of thought. We have our thoughts in
our minds, and we think about those thoughts
in the form of language, right?
TIANMIN: We can also write down
those thoughts and use, use our language to
communicate with others about our thoughts.
Then if you do the reverse process, we are
given language about scenarios. And also a
question about that scenarios, how you can
conduct reasoning using internal thoughts,
not as directly as a language reasongin,
but you want to convert language into an
internal thought and reason over that thought.
TIANMIN: For example, you can describe a language,
you can use language to describe a physical
situation. I just told you yes. Maybe a tower
of blocks on the table. On the bottom
you have a small block. In the middle I
have a larger block. On top, you have an even
larger block. I can ask you, can you imagine
how stable this tower of blocks can be, right?
TIANMIN: And I also describe a different scenario.
On the bottom you have a very large block. On
the middle, you have a smaller kind of on top,
you have a teeny tiny block. Then you can also
imagine what could happen next. Notice I have
shown you a zero image about this, but you can
based on my language execution, try to understand
what I'm trying to describe here, right?
TIANMIN: So how we can convert that language
into something like a thought process that allows
us to simulate what could happen next. So I think
what one so the colleagues at MIT, they come up
with this idea that you can use a language model
to translate this standard distribution into
code. And so basically a probabilistic program
that will basically become a physical simulation.
TIANMIN: So the scenario I told you, after the
model, you'll get a code that allow to simulate
the physical situation, and you can simulate
what could happen next. And that this again, allow
you to do model based kind of reasoning about the
physical world. So I think that's very neat idea.
And it's also very good use of language model,
because again, I don't think language model itself
has all the knowledge about the physical world,
but language model is really good at writing code.
TIANMIN: And we all know that. But, and again,
you can translate do this inverse process
where you can convert language into a thought.
CRAIG: Yeah that's really interesting. And then
how, and you guys have done this isn't theory.
You've built these models to work together.
CRAIG: What is the agency layer. That's the
reasoning and the planning or decision making.
Then how do you add the the agent on the model?
TIANMIN: Yeah so agent is model as a decision
making process, basically in this framework
where you have your your world model,
your internal world model that you
can use to simulate what could happen.
TIANMIN: You have your own goal and goal has
a condition of the goal is you have a reward.
So you really will try to help you to reach
the goal, but also in the process, minimize
the cost. And then you have your belief about the
world because agents only has, an agent only has
partial observation of the physical environments.
TIANMIN: You don't know everything. So you have a
belief about what the actual physical state is.
So again, belief is like distribution of the
physical states. Now, based on this, then you
can try to make a plan that can based on your,
first of all, your belief about how the actual
physical states look like and then based,
and then also try to maximize your rewards
that allow you to reach the goal after doing
simulations about different kinds of plans.
CRAIG: Yeah, yeah. So I'm trying to
think of it in. So that's an RL, a
reinforcement learning engine in effect.
TIANMIN: That doesn't have to be
reinforcement learning, but that
can be a model based planning. So the idea
about so the idea behind the model based
reinforcement learning or model based planning
is that you don't need to do a lot of trial and
error in actual physical environment.
TIANMIN: Okay. You can do so using a
simulation. You can simulate beforehand what
could happen after taking different kind of
actions. Then you can search for the best set of
actions that allow you to reach the goal without
actually trying out in a real physical world.
CRAIG: At home and work, we all know one person
who is password challenged: sticky note reminders,
emailing passwords, reusing passwords, using the
word ‘password’ as their password. Because data
breaches affect everyone, you need 1Password.
1Password combines industry leading security with
award winning designed to bring private, secure
and user friendly password management to everyone.
Companies lose hours every day just from employees
forgetting and resetting passwords. A single
data breach costs millions of dollars. 1Password
secures every sign in to save you time and money.
1Password lets you switch between iPhone, Android,
Mac and PC with convenient features like
autofill for quick signups. All you have
to remember is the one strong account password
that protects everything else - your logins,
your credit cards, secure notes, or the
office Wi Fi password. 1Password generates
as many strong unique passwords as you need
and securely stores them in an encrypted vault
that only you have access to. I use 1Password
and you should too. 1Password’s award winning
password manager is trusted by millions of
users and over 100,000 businesses from IBM
to Slack. It beat out 40 other options to become
Wirecutters top pick for password managers. Plus,
regular third party audits and the industry's
largest bug bounty keep 1Password at the forefront
of security. Right now, my listeners get a
two week free trial at 1Password.com/eyeonai.
CRAIG: That last part sounds like a little bit
like AlphaGo where you you simulate various
courses of action, and then you, you search for
the optimal solution and make that solution? Is
it similar in in architecture to AlphaGo?
The AlphaGo it's not using a world model.
TIANMIN: Okay. So what is the core component
of AlphaGo? It's the Monte Carlo Tree Search,
right? So that's a planning algorithm.
TIANMIN: That, that is not RL, that is
planning. And then, and the reason why you can
do planning in that case is that you know the
rule of the game already, right? So you know
exactly this will be the next stage of the game
after taking certain move, right? And that
allow you to do forward simulation. You can
think ahead for many steps and get better
plans by doing this kind of imagination.
TIANMIN: Now. You mentioned that there doesn't
seem to be a world model. There is a world model.
The world model is very simple. It's just the
rules of the game. And then you know exactly
what could happen next. Now the more, and
the, and I think MCTS for planning, obviously
it's very intriguing because it's very general.
TIANMIN: In a sense that if you have a reward,
you will have a model that allow you to do forward
simulation. In theory, you can do anything. If you
do enough simulation, you can get pretty good
planning. And if you add a little bit learning,
like AlphaGo, You can also make the search
even faster. Now the down, now the downside,
the challenge is that in, in the real world,
you don't have that perfect word model.
TIANMIN: But if you do build a world model
for certain domains, then you can plug
in that world model to do Monte Carlo Tree
Search or any kind of model based planning.
CRAIG: Yeah. How far have your implementations
of this gone? You've you've built a model with
all these elements. Does it depend on Does
its efficacy depend on how large the model
is as is the case with language models, that
the larger the model, the better performance,
or is this more a matter of of just optimizing
hyper parameters and stuff like that?
TIANMIN: You mean like building, actually learning
a world model that can be used for learning a
world model that can be used for very broad
set of domains and not just specific domains.
I think we are not remotely there yet. The reason
is, for example there's just so many different
kind of thing you can model in the world, right?
TIANMIN: You have so many different objects and
even if you think about one specific object, they
have so many different kind of properties you can
try to model like the materials the textures the
weight of the objects. The shape and all these
different kind of properties, right?
TIANMIN: And depending on your task,
your mind needs to model the object in
different ways and to do this you need to
find replications of the objects. For instance,
if you only want to say carry some box around,
you'll probably only need to know the weight and
the rough shape of the box. You don't need to know
very detailed kind of representation of the box.
TIANMIN: If you want to manipulate fluids,
for example, I don't think shape and weight will
be enough. You need to actually model fluid as
some kind of particles. And how the particles
or what flow interact with different kind of,
with different kind of surfaces, right? If you
want to say how I can manipulate some kind of
deformable objects, so say if you want to cut some
vegetables then you also need to know like how the
vegetables will interact with the the knife.
TIANMIN: And then how they will maybe in some
case, maybe a roll on the cutting board.
So you need to somehow hold it. So there's
a different kind of representation for this.
If you only think about single objects. Now,
if you think about wider case where you have
many different objects in the world that's not
only having different kind of properties,
but also being also they are dynamic.
TIANMIN: So the states are also
changed by the forces in nature,
but also other people. So for example, objects
may be moved by another agent while you're not
present. So now you need to also imagine where the
object could be. So world model will become very
complex in the reward. Now how we can build that?
TIANMIN: I don't think there's a single answer
yet. We have world models that can work pretty
well in certain domains. So I mentioned that for
robot manipulation, for example, we can, learn to
how, learn how some kind of substance or methods,
objects will change how their state will
change given certain actions of the robots.
TIANMIN: And using that, you can try to manipulate
robots for certain tasks. I think you mentioned
Gaia. So Gaia is another great example of
a domain specific kind of world model. Of
course you can use that to maybe build self
driving cars, but you cannot use that for,
say, objects manipulation for robots.
TIANMIN: We have other cases where,
for example, you can learn a world model for Some
kind of abstract kind of knowledge. So there's
some world model that's represented as a knowledge
graph. So say if I do this what will happen, say,
if I want to take a flight, I need to buy a
ticket first. So some kind of abstract kind
of common sense knowledge. Now you
can use that to do certain things.
TIANMIN: So say like maybe help you to make a
plan for a vacation. But again, that's because
it's representing it as like an abstract
knowledge. You cannot use that for physical
manipulation. So I would say, I don't have a
great answer about say, building a single world
model that can represent anything in the world.
TIANMIN: I also don't think At this moment it's
the best strategy to try to build such
a model. It's probably better to say a
world model that can do well in a range of
specific domains. That's, and also you can
easily generalize that to similar domains and
fine tune it with a small set of data. But I
don't think it's the best strategy yet to build
one single word model that can do everything.
CRAIG: And the models that you've built
are are trained or tuned for what domains?
TIANMIN: So specifically we've tried to
build word models for household domains,
so we have built at MIT, in our group at MIT, we
built a household simulation called Visual Home.
So we can build different kinds of apartments.
TIANMIN: You have different kinds of objects in
an apartment you can interact with. You
can put many different kinds of agents,
simulated agents in those environments that again,
you can interact with. So in those simulations, we
can generate embodied experiences as training data
to fine tune this for example, language model or
different or other type of model as a world model.
TIANMIN: So this is a very different from say
training a language model on text. And hoping
you can get some knowledge about the words from
those tasks. Because, again just intuitively
speaking, for humans to understand the words,
I don't think you can just read books and you
can perfectly understand what could happen.
TIANMIN: There, there are many details about
the world that won't be described in text. Say
what happens if I push push this button of the
dishwasher? Or what happens if I open the cabinet
door, put another object into the cabinet and
then go away a couple of days later, come back,
how many objects will be there in the cabinet.
TIANMIN: Those kind of knowledge are very common
to us, but you won't read it from books. But
again, those are common sense knowledge that
even kids can have. But if you but the idea here
is that if you build embodied agents in those
simulation environments, ask them to do different
kind of tasks, interact with different agents,
or even just do random exploration,
you'll get these experiences, right?
TIANMIN: You'll get say what will be So how many
objects will be in the cabinet after I did this
sequence of actions? What will happen after I
push this button of the dishwasher? What happen
if I say, we haven't done that yet, but let's say
what happen if I talk to someone and then I tell
them that I'm pretty happy today let's hang out
maybe in the afternoon will be the response.
TIANMIN: But if you can simulate all this and get
a lot of this experience data, then we can train
a model that can really understand how the world
works or even how people will react to actions.
CRAIG: Yeah. And for training in a specific
domain, is that done through video or still
images or text or what is the data that you're
using to train, for example, a household.
TIANMIN: Technically speaking, you can use
any kind of data that you can get from the
environment. So we have the vision data for
sure. You can have the ground truth state
of the objects. And agents, you can translate
those ground truth states into language. So say,
how many objects are there inside these cabinets?
TIANMIN: You can also there's some simulation that
allow you to also simulate audio. So you can say
if I drop this ball onto the ground what will be
the sounds that I can get you can even simulate
touch in some systems. I think in the industry,
actually in the same group at MIT, they had the
collaboration with, another group that works on
multimodal sensory. So they have this nature paper
in recent years where they build this glove that
can allow you to simulate allow you to get touch
sensory. So now imagine if you have some kind of
VR set up where people can using this, using
the kind of graph interact with different kind
of objects and can give you the kind of even the
touch sensors. Now you can use those different
kind of multi modal sensory data to train your
world models. We haven't gone that far yet,
I think. So the work I tell you about we are
using the ground truth state of the object and
agents and then translate that into language.
TIANMIN: So we can more easily to train that,
to understand the world. We have also done another
another part that we have done is, so again,
we are using states that we can extract from the
images. Particularly to represent a state in the
environment as a scene graph. So scene graph is
the structure representation about the world.
TIANMIN: Each node is an object each edge
connecting two nodes representing the spatial
relationship between two objects. So if you have
a cabinet, you have cabinet nodes. If a cup, you
have a cup nodes. And then if the inside cabinet,
there will be a inside the edge connecting the cup
and the cabinet. So this kind of representation
can be extracted from images but it's a pretty
appealing kind of representation compared to
pixels because from pixel you don't get this
semantic knowledge about the physical states.
TIANMIN: Now you can, you don't need to represent
it into language, but you can just use
the symbolic representations of this
scene graph as the world state, and again, you
can train that model on top of those symbolic
representations to predict what will happen next.
CRAIG: Yeah. During that training process I
spoke to somebody a year or so ago, who
was working on a training system that,
that was hyper speed. So a hundred, I think it
was a million frames a second or some credible
rate. Do you have to train in real time or can
you train at hyper speed? How long does a system
need to absorb an image or frame a video?
TIANMIN: Yeah, so I think that depends
on how data hungry your model is.
TIANMIN: And so say if you want to
train model free RL, I think you mentioned this,
right? So usually for training model free RL,
you want your system to be as fast as possible
because it is very data hungry. You have to try
many different actions. just blindly, only just
blindly, so that you can get enough data to,
or enough training signal to update your policy.
TIANMIN: If you haven't tried enough, you probably
have, probably cannot even get any positive
reward at all in some very complex tasks. However,
I think for training world models, on the
other hand I think the speed is actually
not the biggest issue. You can just, that's
an algorithm, not algorithm even, just like
any kind of embodied agent in the simulation.
TIANMIN: That is to explore, try different
things in the environment for first a
period of time. You're going to get a
lot of data already. Because again, it's
different from tuning our agents because
our agent has the rule function that's defined
for a specific goal. You try a lot of things,
you get a lot observation data, but now those
probably at the beginning are related to a task.
TIANMIN: So you don't get any positive reward at
all. However for training world model you train on
random things in the world, a lot of random
thing will happen. And those random things
happening is actually all the useful training
signal for your world model, right? If I, if
I. If I push something, something will be moved.
TIANMIN: If I push something down, something will
be in a different location. If I walk from one
room to another room, I know my location will
be changed. My observation also will change.
So that gives you many training signals you
can use. So you don't need to, I think, compared
to at least model free RL agents, you don't need
to try too many steps to get useful data.
CRAIG: Yeah. And so you've trained in a
household environment for that domain
is this all in simulation or do you
have you or is this outside of your area of
research? Have you tried controlling a robot
with this kind of a world agent model?
TIANMIN: I guess part of my research
is also in human robot interactions.
TIANMIN: So down the line, we do want
to evaluate all these models in the real world.
Recently, I haven't done that yet, but there's
there are other groups that have done that. So
there's, I think we actually mentioned this paper
in our tutorial. So there's a very recent paper
from AI2, AI2 is the [Allen Institute for AI]
AI Research Institute in Seattle.
TIANMIN: So they, they show that if
you want to train a policy, a robot policy
for indoor environment kind of navigation,
so say, try to find a TV remote for me
or try to train some policy to do simple,
very simple object manipulation, say,
pick up one glass and give it to me.
Now and they train this actually on raw pixels.
TIANMIN: So they don't actually turn on ground
truth world state. So give them pixel that we can
see in front of you and then give the command,
say find this object for me. You want the robot to
actually navigate and search through the apartment
and find the object for you. Now, previously
people think Yes, could be a very big domain
gap between simulation and the real world.
TIANMIN: In fact, I think many robotics
researchers are actually against using simulation
precisely because they think no matter how good
simulation is, they're not going to be real.
They're going to be a hundred percent real.
And particularly if you think about the kind of
policy we want to build here, it's crazy, right?
TIANMIN: It's actually low pixel inputs and they
are then mapped to some actions. Now the pixel
rendering from simulation will be definitely
not going to be 100 percent real compared to
real world images. However, they show that if
you have enough data, you actually do not need
any kind of real world data to fine tune
the model you're training in simulation.
TIANMIN: And they can deploy in real world
apartments, and that's the real physical robot
to do the same kind of test. So I think that's
very promising because the quality of the current
simulation is already very good. That, that's one.
And second, it allows to generate a lot of data,
a lot of data you cannot get from the real world.
TIANMIN: And if you have enough data you can get
very good policies out of it. And I think
it also presents maybe even the third kind
of opportunities. So when you have a lot of
simulations you have household simulations,
you have traffic simulations, you have those kind
of objects manipulation simulation for robots,
you have fluid simulation, you have other kind
of physical fixed engine kind of simulation.
TIANMIN: You have all these simulation
people have built. You have a model that
can understand learn like general knowledge about
the world from all these different simulations,
then those that have knowledge are very
useful for the real world. Even though like
for individual simulation, they don't represent
the whole world, but if you can combine knowledge
from different kinds of simulation together,
then you can have a, I guess like a forward
picture about how the physical world works.
CRAIG: Yeah. And the this is all still in,
in the research phase but how long do you think
before, this is one kind of agent. There are a
lot of different strategies to build agents, but
how long do you, how promising do you think this
method is as opposed to others? And how long do
you think before somebody puts, refines this and
puts it into a product in the real world?
TIANMIN: I guess like you mentioned Gaia,
so I don't know exactly how they are using
their simulation for their products. But they
are startup companies. I don't think they're going
to build anything that's just purely for research
that have no real value at all. And then I think
also we have things again I mentioned these indoor
kind of robot navigation kind of tasks, right?
TIANMIN: Those are very useful right? If you
want to build robots systems that can
help you to do household tasks the,
one of the most fundamental tasks you're going
to ask a robot to do is to find objects you're
going to need for whatever the thing you
want to do in the house. Now down the line,
if you train robots to do more complex tasks
using similar kind of approach, I think will
be a pretty compelling kind of product for you.
TIANMIN: And then that's definitely going to be
more useful than Roomba. And I think that
announcing that could be very useful for
is not just embodied agents, like robots
or self driving cars, but also just say,
web agents. So think about works interface
or any kind of software interface.
TIANMIN: As also a world model, like you can
try to figure out how does the interface work
after you've taken some actions and you
can model it as a kind of virtual world
model so to speak. Then if you can do that,
you can also build any kind of system agents
for web interfaces for softwares Et cetera.
CRAIG: Yeah. And so do you think that within
a year or two years or five years there'll be
whether or not they're embodied or virtual?
There'll be, people will be working with agents
built on this architecture in various domains.
TIANMIN: I am not good at predictions, but I
think, embodied agents are always very hard to
build. Like for example, you would think one
of the most fundamental, most basic kind of
task for robots, which is grasping an object.
I think some robotics actually ?? says that
whenever you start to work on grasping,
you can have a whole career ahead of you.
TIANMIN: It's just a really hard problem
right now. However, if you think about
simplified tasks that doesn't require a lot
of very compact physical manipulation say,
maybe like web interfaces or some kind of
virtual assistants that can help you to do
some tasks. I think that could happen easily.
TIANMIN: I think there are already people
building, trying to build such for that
as well. And I think also maybe even say,
for embodied agents. For very not very,
but somewhat rigid environments. So say
in I don't know warehouses or factories
again, they are already products like that,
but I think with better AI models, you can
have more powerful kind of robot coworkers
in those more rigid environments.
CRAIG: Yeah. But do you know of any
commercial enterprise that's taking
your research and implementing it?
TIANMIN: Right now, I don't think so.
I don't have that knowledge. Yeah.
CRAIG: Yeah. It's fascinating research.
So I see you refer to it as LAW,
TIANMIN: language model,
agent model, and world model.
CRAIG: Yeah. I see that LAW. I don't
know if that's a term you use. Yeah.
CRAIG: Okay. So what's next in your research?
TIANMIN: So like I said, building one models
and also agent models. I think that's very
fascinating direction for me. And also for
many people now, and hopefully what people
are finding fascinating and work on that.
TIANMIN: But I think another thing, and I'm really
interested in is social learning, which was also
talked a little bit about in the tutorial. So you
have a model that can learn on its own, but think
about humans actually learn a lot of things. with
each other or from other people, right? And we can
also teach knowledge we learn to other people.
TIANMIN: So how we can actually build models
that can, or agents, that can also
learn with humans, learn for humans,
or learn from humans. I think that's another
kind of direction I really want to work on.